README.md, before:

# tinfoil-bolt

**tinfoil-bolt** is a lightning-fast, zero-dependency, and lightweight backend server to serve your personal game backup library to Tinfoil on Nintendo Switch.

Built with [Bun](https://bun.sh), it replaces bloated, unmaintainable alternatives with a single, transparent TypeScript file that does exactly what you need and nothing else.

## Why Bolt?

Many existing Tinfoil server solutions suffer from feature creep: auto-updaters that pose security risks, heavy polling mechanisms, required databases, or complex UIs.

**tinfoil-bolt is different:**

* **Zero Dependencies:** No `node_modules` black hole. Uses Bun's native HTTP and FileSystem APIs.
* **Stateless:** No database to sync. It scans your folders when Tinfoil asks.
* **Multi-Mount Support:** Seamlessly serve games scattered across multiple drives/mounts (e.g., `/mnt/nas` and `/mnt/usb`) as a single unified library.
* **Secure:** Designed to run with **Read-Only** access to your files. No risk of deletion or corruption.
* **Performance:** Uses the `sendfile` syscall (via Bun) for high-performance file streaming from your NAS to your Switch.

## 🛠️ Installation

### Option 1: Docker Compose (Recommended)

This is the easiest way to run `tinfoil-bolt` on your NAS, Home Server, or Proxmox LXC container.

1. Clone or download this entire repository.
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update with your game directories and optional auth settings.
3. Update the volume paths in `docker-compose.yml` to match your actual game storage locations.
4. Run:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```



### Option 2: Bare Metal (LXC/Linux)

If you are running a raw LXC container and don't want Docker overhead:

1. **Install Bun:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
```

2. **Configure:**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your game directories
```

3. **Run:**
```bash
bun run src/server.ts
# or with npm-style scripts:
bun start
```



## Configuration

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and configure the following variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `PORT` | The port the server listens on. | `3000` |
| `GAMES_DIRS` | Comma or semicolon-separated list of **absolute paths** where your NSP/NSZ/XCI files are stored. | `/data/games` |
| `CACHE_TTL` | Cache duration (in seconds) for shop data. Reduces expensive directory scans on network mounts. Set to `0` to disable caching. | `300` |

### Authentication (Optional)

You can protect all endpoints with HTTP Basic Auth by setting either `AUTH_USER` + `AUTH_PASS` or a single `AUTH_CREDENTIALS` value (`user:pass`). If none are set, authentication is disabled.

- Variables:
  - `AUTH_USER` and `AUTH_PASS`: username/password pair
  - `AUTH_CREDENTIALS`: combined `user:pass` string
- Precedence: `AUTH_USER`/`AUTH_PASS` take priority over `AUTH_CREDENTIALS` when both are present.

Examples:

```bash
# Local (Bun)
AUTH_CREDENTIALS=admin:secret bun run src/server.ts

# Test without auth header (should be 401)
curl -i http://localhost:3000/

# Test with auth header (should be 200)
curl -i -H "Authorization: Basic $(printf 'admin:secret' | base64)" http://localhost:3000/
```

Docker Compose:

```yaml
services:
  tinfoil-bolt:
    env_file: .env
    environment:
      - PORT=3000
      - GAMES_DIRS=/games/1,/games/2
      - AUTH_CREDENTIALS=${AUTH_CREDENTIALS}
```

Note: Keep the server on a trusted LAN. If your client supports Basic Auth, set credentials accordingly. If not, leave auth disabled.

### How It Works

1. The root endpoint (`/` or `/tinfoil`) returns an index listing `shop.json` and `shop.tfl`
2. Tinfoil requests `/shop.tfl` which contains the actual game library with relative URLs
3. Each configured directory is aliased (e.g., `games`, `games-2`) to keep paths unique across multiple mounts
4. Files are served from `/files/{alias}/{relative-path}`

## Tinfoil Setup (Switch)

1. Open **Tinfoil** on your Nintendo Switch.
2. Navigate to **File Browser**.
3. Press **-** (Minus Button) to add a new location.
4. Fill in the details:
  * **Protocol:** `HTTP`
  * **Host:** Your Server IP (e.g., `192.168.1.50`)
  * **Port:** `3000` (or whatever you set)
  * **Path:** `/` (or `/tinfoil` - both work)
  * **Title:** `Bolt Server` (or whatever you like)
  * **Username:** (if auth enabled, enter your `AUTH_USER` value)
  * **Password:** (if auth enabled, enter your `AUTH_PASS` value)
5. Press **X** to Save.

Tinfoil will fetch the index, then request `/shop.tfl` to load your library. Your "New Games" tab will populate automatically.

**Note:** If you have enabled Basic Auth on the server, Tinfoil's File Browser will prompt for credentials when connecting. Leave username/password blank if auth is disabled.

## Supported Formats

The server recursively scans for the following extensions:

* `.nsp`
* `.nsz`
* `.xci`
* `.xciz`

## Security Note

This application serves files over plain HTTP (required by Tinfoil's standard implementation). It is intended for use inside a **trusted local network** (LAN). Do not expose this port directly to the internet without a VPN or proper authentication layer.

## License

MIT License. Feel free to fork, mod, and use in your home lab.

---

*Disclaimer: This tool is for managing your legally owned backups and homebrews. The authors do not condone piracy.*

Commit message:

Add optional success message configuration for shop loading

README.md, after:

# tinfoil-bolt

**tinfoil-bolt** is a lightning-fast, zero-dependency, and lightweight backend server to serve your personal game backup library to Tinfoil on Nintendo Switch.

Built with [Bun](https://bun.sh), it replaces bloated, unmaintainable alternatives with a single, transparent TypeScript file that does exactly what you need and nothing else.

## Why Bolt?

Many existing Tinfoil server solutions suffer from feature creep: auto-updaters that pose security risks, heavy polling mechanisms, required databases, or complex UIs.

**tinfoil-bolt is different:**

* **Zero Dependencies:** No `node_modules` black hole. Uses Bun's native HTTP and FileSystem APIs.
* **Stateless:** No database to sync. It scans your folders when Tinfoil asks.
* **Multi-Mount Support:** Seamlessly serve games scattered across multiple drives/mounts (e.g., `/mnt/nas` and `/mnt/usb`) as a single unified library.
* **Secure:** Designed to run with **Read-Only** access to your files. No risk of deletion or corruption.
* **Performance:** Uses the `sendfile` syscall (via Bun) for high-performance file streaming from your NAS to your Switch.

## 🛠️ Installation

### Option 1: Docker Compose (Recommended)

This is the easiest way to run `tinfoil-bolt` on your NAS, Home Server, or Proxmox LXC container.

1. Clone or download this entire repository.
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update with your game directories and optional auth settings.
3. Update the volume paths in `docker-compose.yml` to match your actual game storage locations.
4. Run:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```



### Option 2: Bare Metal (LXC/Linux)

If you are running a raw LXC container and don't want Docker overhead:

1. **Install Bun:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://bun.sh/install | bash
```

2. **Configure:**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your game directories
```

3. **Run:**
```bash
bun run src/server.ts
# or with npm-style scripts:
bun start
```



## Configuration

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and configure the following variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `PORT` | The port the server listens on. | `3000` |
| `GAMES_DIRS` | Comma or semicolon-separated list of **absolute paths** where your NSP/NSZ/XCI files are stored. | `/data/games` |
| `CACHE_TTL` | Cache duration (in seconds) for shop data. Reduces expensive directory scans on network mounts. Set to `0` to disable caching. | `300` |
| `SUCCESS_MESSAGE` | Optional message displayed in Tinfoil when the shop is loaded. Great for MOTD or custom greetings. | (empty) |

### Authentication (Optional)

You can protect all endpoints with HTTP Basic Auth by setting either `AUTH_USER` + `AUTH_PASS` or a single `AUTH_CREDENTIALS` value (`user:pass`). If none are set, authentication is disabled.

- Variables:
  - `AUTH_USER` and `AUTH_PASS`: username/password pair
  - `AUTH_CREDENTIALS`: combined `user:pass` string
- Precedence: `AUTH_USER`/`AUTH_PASS` take priority over `AUTH_CREDENTIALS` when both are present.

Examples:

```bash
# Local (Bun)
AUTH_CREDENTIALS=admin:secret bun run src/server.ts

# Test without auth header (should be 401)
curl -i http://localhost:3000/

# Test with auth header (should be 200)
curl -i -H "Authorization: Basic $(printf 'admin:secret' | base64)" http://localhost:3000/
```

Docker Compose:

```yaml
services:
  tinfoil-bolt:
    env_file: .env
    environment:
      - PORT=3000
      - GAMES_DIRS=/games/1,/games/2
      - AUTH_CREDENTIALS=${AUTH_CREDENTIALS}
```

Note: Keep the server on a trusted LAN. If your client supports Basic Auth, set credentials accordingly. If not, leave auth disabled.

### How It Works

1. The root endpoint (`/` or `/tinfoil`) returns an index listing `shop.json` and `shop.tfl`
2. Tinfoil requests `/shop.tfl` which contains the actual game library with relative URLs
3. Each configured directory is aliased (e.g., `games`, `games-2`) to keep paths unique across multiple mounts
4. Files are served from `/files/{alias}/{relative-path}`

## Tinfoil Setup (Switch)

1. Open **Tinfoil** on your Nintendo Switch.
2. Navigate to **File Browser**.
3. Press **-** (Minus Button) to add a new location.
4. Fill in the details:
  * **Protocol:** `HTTP`
  * **Host:** Your Server IP (e.g., `192.168.1.50`)
  * **Port:** `3000` (or whatever you set)
  * **Path:** `/` (or `/tinfoil` - both work)
  * **Title:** `Bolt Server` (or whatever you like)
  * **Username:** (if auth enabled, enter your `AUTH_USER` value)
  * **Password:** (if auth enabled, enter your `AUTH_PASS` value)
5. Press **X** to Save.

Tinfoil will fetch the index, then request `/shop.tfl` to load your library. Your "New Games" tab will populate automatically.

**Note:** If you have enabled Basic Auth on the server, Tinfoil's File Browser will prompt for credentials when connecting. Leave username/password blank if auth is disabled.

## Supported Formats

The server recursively scans for the following extensions:

* `.nsp`
* `.nsz`
* `.xci`
* `.xciz`

## Security Note

This application serves files over plain HTTP (required by Tinfoil's standard implementation). It is intended for use inside a **trusted local network** (LAN). Do not expose this port directly to the internet without a VPN or proper authentication layer.

## License

MIT License. Feel free to fork, mod, and use in your home lab.

---

*Disclaimer: This tool is for managing your legally owned backups and homebrews. The authors do not condone piracy.*
